\newpage
# Project Outline

### Project Overview

The proposed project aims to streamline the collection of harvest
weights across four main categories:

-   **To Market:** Items of high quality, ready for sale at the
    student-led organic farm stand.
-   **To Student Services:** Items with visual defects, donated to
    student services to provide free food for students.
-   **Value Added:** Items that, though severely bruised, can be
    transformed into products like apple butter.
-   **Cull:** Items unfit for human consumption, returned to compost for
    enriching the next crop cycle.

### Data Collection System

The automated data collection system will feature:

-   **Weight Measurement:** Weight data collected from scales will be
    processed using a Raspberry Pi and displayed on an interface screen.
-   **Categorization:** Bar code scanners will categorize items swiftly
    and accurately, akin to retail inventory systems.
-   **Hardware Considerations:** The selected hardware prioritizes ease
    of maintenance and durability, ensuring minimal need for repairs and
    straightforward replacement of parts as listed in the Bill of
    Materials and design document.

### Future-Proof Design

Our system is designed to be highly adaptable, enabling future
integrations such as:

-   **Hexapod Robots and Sensory Hubs:** For monitoring soil moisture
    and nitrogen levels.
-   **Machine Vision Weed Detection:** To optimize pest control and
    farming decisions.
-   **Nutrient Sensors:** Providing continuous, granular data on soil
    quality.

### Implementation and Maintenance

Over the next quarter, we will develop a comprehensive maintenance guide
as we deploy our Data Collection System. designed to be user-friendly
for freshman CS students or Evergreen College IT staff. The long-term
vision includes integrating advanced technologies to support
regenerative farming practices and open-source data sharing to create
ties with farms in industry and other Agricultural science departments.
