\newpage
# Project Roster

This project would not be where it is today without the support of all
these driven individuals. Thank you, everyone. A special thanks to all
the faculty who provided letters of support.

## Faculty support

### Paul Pham, Ph.D., Computer Science

I teach upper-division computer science courses, including Data
Structures & Algorithms (DSA), \'23-\'24. In \'24-\'25, I'll also be
teaching in Advanced Computing & Machine Learning with Applications to
Biology (ACMLAB).

In Fall \'24, DSA students and I collaborated with Melissa Nivala and
Principles of Farming (POF) students to begin designing a data
automation and analysis system for Evergreen\'s Organic Farm. This
project is part of a long-term, interdisciplinary effort that will
support team-taught Coordinated Studies Programs, provide long-term
benefits to the College through durable equipment and sustainable food
systems, and give students opportunities for research and publication.

In Winter \'25, I'll lead a Student-Originated Studies (SOS) program
focused on farm automation. This program will include students from CS,
farming, and engineering, with clear design goals and user feedback from
farm students. In Spring \'25, ACMLAB will include a hexapod robotics
project with a camera and software to analyze 3D models of plants. This
work will support interdisciplinary teaching with biology and CS faculty
(Catherine Kehl and Pauline Yu). We aim to explore how Evergreen can
integrate CS with natural and agricultural sciences without compromising
the success of the existing CS curriculum. Our farm's expansive land and
flexible, self-driven student culture provide a unique advantage for
this effort, aligning with the College\'s goal of increasing enrollment
by 1,000 students.

In \'25-\'26, I'll teach evening PaCE courses focused on back-end
development and maintaining web services for farm automation. A
compelling website and online presence can be designed by students
taking front-end courses with faculty like Jes Carey and Arlen Speights.
Additionally, I'll assist in a faculty search for a DSA and SOS visiting
hire for the Olympia curriculum. The role will emphasize farm
collaboration as a unique intellectual and service-oriented opportunity.
This may align with the Regenerative Agriculture hire, who has shown
interest in using technology and data in their research.

I look forward to advising and helping design sustainable engineering
processes for this and future SOS programs and collaborating with
faculty and students at Evergreen.

Paul

### Melissa Nivala, Ph.D. Applied Mathematics

I am a core faculty member of the Food and Agriculture pathway,
focusing on quantitative analysis.  In Fall 2024, while teaching
Practices of Organic Farming (POF), the lack of data (collection,
transfer to electronic format, and transparent sharing) was identified
as a key bottleneck, impeding the ability of students to learn through a
quantitative framework.  Thus, I am heavily dedicated to this
collaborative project and will continue to support it throughout the
24-25 academic year and beyond.

My contributions in Winter and Spring \'25 will be advising DSA students
in the nature of the data, i.e. data management: what variables need to
be measured, which units and unit conversions are necessary, and how to
best disseminate the data for analysis to inform farm operations and
curriculum.  I will co-teach a Student Originated Studies program with
Paul Pham, and plan to visit the farm and the DSA students regularly to
ensure success of the project.  I will strive to make the data
transparently available, via a website or online repository, so it can
be used as a teaching tool in any program containing mathematics,
statistics, food and agriculture.

Longer term, I am heavily involved in the curriculum planning for the
next two academic years of farm curriculum and will be teaching on the
farm in \'25-\'26 and \'26-\'27.  This data management project will set
the stage for faculty to be able to develop rigorous, scientific
learning on the farm, ideally resulting in student led research projects
and upper division science credit offerings.  The plan to collect data
strongly aligns with the onboarding of a new faculty member in
Regenerative Organic Agriculture, supporting the new faculty in teaching
advanced soil science, quantitative agroecology, etc. and conducting
undergraduate scientific research.  I plan to collaborate with this new
faculty on undergraduate research, to develop mathematical models of
nutrient cycling, plant and organism growth and other concerns for
regenerative agriculture.  Development of these models will require fine
grained data collection, which is the main goal of this current project.

Thanks,  
Melissa

## Students

Following the esteemed faculty who guide and shape the academic journey
with their vast expertise and knowledge, we present our talented and
ambitious students. This section is dedicated to those who are embarking
on their path to greatness, ready to learn, grow, and make their mark on
the world.

### Austin Strayer

STEM student Senior -- Data structures and Algorithms -- Software
development, and data architecture.

### Dani Monroe

STEM student Sophomore -- Data structures and Algorithms -- Leadership,
Data science and, applied computational modeling

### Leif Mark George Fischer II

STEM student Junior -- Principals of farming -- Agricultural Ecology,
and Indigenous land practices \*this project bloomed from your idea\*

### Shawn Bird

STEM student Sophomore -- Data structures and Algorithms -- Technology
Consulting
